README.md, before:

# CARE - Collaborative AI-Assisted Reading Environment

CARE is a collaborative reading environment that allows users to read and annotate documents together.

A demo of the latest version of the software is available under https://care.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/.

## Documentation

The documentation of the latest version is available under https://care.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/docs/.

The documentation can also be built locally by running `make doc` in the root directory of the project and is then available under `docs/build/html/index.html`.

Note: To build the documentation locally, you need to install the following dependencies:
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
* [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
* [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)

## Contact 

Maintainers: Dennis Zyska (dennis.zyska@tu-darmstadt.de) and Nils Dycke (nils.dycke@tu-darmstadt.de)

https://www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de/

https://www.tu-darmstadt.de/

Don't hesitate to send us an e-mail or report an issue, if something is broken (and it shouldn't be) or if you have further questions.

## Citing

Please use the following citation:

``` TODO: Add correct citation
@InProceedings{zyska:2023:ACL,
  author    = {Zyska, Dennis and 
    Dycke, Nils and 
    Buchmann, Jan and 
    Kutznetsov, Ilia and 
    Gurevych, Iryna}
  title     = {CARE - Collaborative AI-Assisted Reading Environment},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL)},
  year      = {2023},
  address   = {Gotham City, USA},
  publisher = {Association for Computational Linguistics},
  pages     = {XXXX--XXXX},
  url       = {http://xxxx.xxx}
}
```

### Disclaimer

This repository contains experimental software and is published for the sole purpose of giving additional background details on the respective publication.

Commit message:

removed citation and add disclaimer for only unix testing

README.md, after:

# CARE - Collaborative AI-Assisted Reading Environment

CARE is a collaborative reading environment that allows users to read and annotate documents together.

A demo of the latest version of the software is available under https://care.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/.

## Documentation

The documentation of the latest version is available under https://care.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/docs/.

The documentation can also be built locally by running `make doc` in the root directory of the project and is then available under `docs/build/html/index.html`.

Note: To build the documentation locally, you need to install the following dependencies:
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
* [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
* [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)

## Contact 

Maintainers: Dennis Zyska (dennis.zyska@tu-darmstadt.de) and Nils Dycke (nils.dycke@tu-darmstadt.de)

https://www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de/

https://www.tu-darmstadt.de/

Don't hesitate to send us an e-mail or report an issue, if something is broken (and it shouldn't be) or if you have further questions.


### Disclaimer

This repository contains experimental software and is published for the sole purpose of giving additional background details on the respective publication.
The software is only tested on unix systems and is not guaranteed to work on other operating systems.
