docs/source/for_researchers/basics.rst, before:

Basics
===================

In this chapter we cover the basics of using CARE for *your* research without the need for modifying the codebase
of the project. CARE gets you started quick and allows for very flexible data collection and extrinsic model
evaluation scenarios.

Hosting CARE for Your Study
---------------------------
To host CARE with all features including coupling of NLP models, you need to start the actual CARE server, the
NLP Broker and any models you want to provide. You may run all of these components on different machines, but we
recommend to run broker and CARE server on the same machine to reduce latency.

For more advanced deployment scenarios such as conducting multiple user studies, configuring external brokers, or running on dedicated infrastructure, please refer to the :doc:`Study Tutorials and Examples <study/study>`.

Please check out the details of hosting the CARE server described in the
:doc:`getting started chapter <../getting_started/installation>`.

.. note::

    For running internal pilot studies, running an NGINX server along with CARE is not strictly necessary, but this is highly recommended
    when opening the tool to a network, adn especially when making it accessible to the internet. Please also configure
    your firewall to ensure high levels of security (opening only essential ports etc.). Also, you should urgently change the
    password of the admin user in the ``.env.main`` file.

Please refer to the documentation of the `NLP Broker <https://github.com/UKPLab/CARE_broker>`_ for the details on hosting
it. To test your setup, you may couple `example huggingface model nodes <https://github.com/UKPLab/CARE_models>`_
considering their accompanying documentation.

After a successful setup of the CARE server, the broker and, for instance, the sentiment classification model, you
should be able to access CARE via a browser (by default on ``http://localhost:9090``), login as a guest, access the
showcase document and make annotations. If your setup process was successful, you should see a smiley next to the
comment (indicating the sentiment according to the model), see a request logged in the NLP broker console and in
the sentiment classifier model node (with the respective comment text).

Trouble Shooting
-----------------

**Unclear errors**
Hosting CARE has been extensively tested for Ubuntu and Linux distributions, if you are hosting it on Windows or iOS,
not all automatic build processes may work. In that case, please submit an official issue in the github repository
of CARE describing the encountered issue and system configuration in detail. If you are unsure about an error while
hosting on Windows or iOS, a quickfix is to move the tool to a (virtual) Linux machine.

**Running, but no NLP results**
If CARE, broker and model are running, but you don't get any NLP results, chances are high that you did not configure
your environment variables correctly. Make sure that you chose the right URL for your local NLP broker both in the
CARE server configuration, the NLPBroker configuration and the NLP model nodes. Also make sure that you activated the
use of NLP and deactivated fallback services in the environment file.


Research with CARE
-------------------

You can realize a diverse set of studies within vanilla CARE. Generally, there are three options for the usage of the tool for
research:

    * observing text interaction and collaboration "in the wild"
    * running structured annotation studies for information labeling on PDF documents
    * testing NLP models and human-in-the-loop scenarios

CARE for Natural Text Interactions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you are interested in the first case, i.e. collecting any annotation data that users generate while naturally using
CARE for reading, please check out your options for :doc:`data export <./exporting>`.
In this case, you should possess full admin rights for the instance of your tool, because behavioral data is kept under
a tight lid and is only available to administrators.

CARE for Structured Annotation Studies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you are interested in running structured annotation studies, you can use the rich study management feature integrated
in CARE. The general workflow for setting up such a study looks as follows:

    1. Define the terms for your user study via the integrated settings menu in the CARE dashboard (admin access required).

    To define your registration terms:
        - Log in to CARE with an admin account.
        - Go to the **Settings** section in the dashboard.
        - Navigate to **app → register → app.register.terms** (the last setting in that group).
        - Click on the multiline text area labeled "Terms and conditions text to display during registration".
        - Use the text editor that appears to enter your customized terms and conditions.

    .. warning::
        It is essential to define these terms **before making your instance publicly available or inviting users** to participate in a study.
        The default template is generic and not suitable for legal or ethical consent in real studies.
        After making changes to the terms, you **must click "Save Settings"** at the top of the page to ensure the changes are applied.

    2. Ask your users to register (either anonymously or with full information); if you want to collect behavioral data
       they need to confirm the collection of this data upon registration.
    3. For each document in the study, upload it to the server via the Documents view of the dashboard.
    4. Create a study for each of the documents (either via the Documents view or via the Study view of the dashboard).
    5. Send the respective participants the study invite links for the documents they should handle.
    6. Wait for the results. You can review the progress and output of participants from the Study view of the dashboard.
    7. Either download the annotations for all your documents in the Documents view or check each document and download
       them individually. This includes all annotations of all studies, which can be disentangled by considering the
       studyId associated with each inline commentary.

.. note::
    In the future an extensive in-tool tutorial will be provided to facilitate the usage of CARE for researchers.

CARE for NLP Model Integration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For testing NLP models and human-in-the-loop scenarios, please consider the existing NLP model examples integrated in
care (highlight summarization and comment sentiment classification) and the extensive guide on
:doc:`modifying the frontend <../for_developers/frontend/frontend>` to add other models with different UI elements.

User Consent
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you can collect any data with CARE, participants must give their consent.  
During registration, three separate checkboxes are shown:

1. **Terms of Service**: required to create an account.  
2. **Anonymous statistics**: allows collection of usage metrics (e.g. counts of actions).  
3. **Research data**: allows storage of annotations and behavioural logs for research.  

The first item is mandatory, the other two are optional.  
Users can update or withdraw their consent at any time in the profile menu under **Update Consent**.  

.. note::

   Without consent for research data, CARE will not log annotations or behavioural traces.  
   The backend enforces this, and admins can configure the default settings in :doc:`../for_developers/examples/settings`.
   
NLP Model Debugging
===================
As an administrator you can monitor the available NLP models from within the frontend under the "NLP Skills" component
of the dashboard. Here you can see a list of all connected skills and the status of the NLP broker.

To troubleshoot your model, first check that the broker is online and that the skill is listed as connected in the
components' table. If this is not the case, you should make sure that the broker is up and running and that you
connected your model to the right broker instance. You can check which broker instance is used under Settings >
Broker URL.

For each skill, you can open the details of their configuration (the gear symbol). You will see the input and ouput
examples and the whole configuration of the skill, as specified in its respective yaml. You can download or copy
this configuration if you want to use it for developing other skills.
Additionally, when you hit the arrow button at the top, a message interface towards the skill opens up. You can send
messages to the model and receive their responses here. Starting off with the example input you can modify the input
you send to the model. Below the message configuration you see the list of sent and received messages including the
passed objects. Check that the results match your expectation. By default, a response time of >5s is regarded as
timed out. If this is the case, your model might not run properly anymore.

.. note::
    An easy-to-use plugin feature for the frontend is currently under development to make modifying the frontend
    for integrating new UI elements for an NLP model as easy as writing a simply configuration file.

Commit message:

docs: update NLP skill preprocessing documentation and add preprocessing workflow details

docs/source/for_researchers/basics.rst, after:

Basics
===================

In this chapter we cover the basics of using CARE for *your* research without the need for modifying the codebase
of the project. CARE gets you started quick and allows for very flexible data collection and extrinsic model
evaluation scenarios.

Hosting CARE for Your Study
---------------------------
To host CARE with all features including coupling of NLP models, you need to start the actual CARE server, the
NLP Broker and any models you want to provide. You may run all of these components on different machines, but we
recommend to run broker and CARE server on the same machine to reduce latency.

For more advanced deployment scenarios such as conducting multiple user studies, configuring external brokers, or running on dedicated infrastructure, please refer to the :doc:`Study Tutorials and Examples <study/study>`.

Please check out the details of hosting the CARE server described in the
:doc:`getting started chapter <../getting_started/installation>`.

.. note::

    For running internal pilot studies, running an NGINX server along with CARE is not strictly necessary, but this is highly recommended
    when opening the tool to a network, adn especially when making it accessible to the internet. Please also configure
    your firewall to ensure high levels of security (opening only essential ports etc.). Also, you should urgently change the
    password of the admin user in the ``.env.main`` file.

Please refer to the documentation of the `NLP Broker <https://github.com/UKPLab/CARE_broker>`_ for the details on hosting
it. To test your setup, you may couple `example huggingface model nodes <https://github.com/UKPLab/CARE_models>`_
considering their accompanying documentation.

After a successful setup of the CARE server, the broker and, for instance, the sentiment classification model, you
should be able to access CARE via a browser (by default on ``http://localhost:9090``), login as a guest, access the
showcase document and make annotations. If your setup process was successful, you should see a smiley next to the
comment (indicating the sentiment according to the model), see a request logged in the NLP broker console and in
the sentiment classifier model node (with the respective comment text).

Trouble Shooting
-----------------

**Unclear errors**
Hosting CARE has been extensively tested for Ubuntu and Linux distributions, if you are hosting it on Windows or iOS,
not all automatic build processes may work. In that case, please submit an official issue in the github repository
of CARE describing the encountered issue and system configuration in detail. If you are unsure about an error while
hosting on Windows or iOS, a quickfix is to move the tool to a (virtual) Linux machine.

**Running, but no NLP results**
If CARE, broker and model are running, but you don't get any NLP results, chances are high that you did not configure
your environment variables correctly. Make sure that you chose the right URL for your local NLP broker both in the
CARE server configuration, the NLPBroker configuration and the NLP model nodes. Also make sure that you activated the
use of NLP and deactivated fallback services in the environment file.


Research with CARE
-------------------

You can realize a diverse set of studies within vanilla CARE. Generally, there are three options for the usage of the tool for
research:

    * observing text interaction and collaboration "in the wild"
    * running structured annotation studies for information labeling on PDF documents
    * testing NLP models and human-in-the-loop scenarios

CARE for Natural Text Interactions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you are interested in the first case, i.e. collecting any annotation data that users generate while naturally using
CARE for reading, please check out your options for :doc:`data export <./exporting>`.
In this case, you should possess full admin rights for the instance of your tool, because behavioral data is kept under
a tight lid and is only available to administrators.

CARE for Structured Annotation Studies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you are interested in running structured annotation studies, you can use the rich study management feature integrated
in CARE. The general workflow for setting up such a study looks as follows:

    1. Define the terms for your user study via the integrated settings menu in the CARE dashboard (admin access required).

    To define your registration terms:
        - Log in to CARE with an admin account.
        - Go to the **Settings** section in the dashboard.
        - Navigate to **app → register → app.register.terms** (the last setting in that group).
        - Click on the multiline text area labeled "Terms and conditions text to display during registration".
        - Use the text editor that appears to enter your customized terms and conditions.

    .. warning::
        It is essential to define these terms **before making your instance publicly available or inviting users** to participate in a study.
        The default template is generic and not suitable for legal or ethical consent in real studies.
        After making changes to the terms, you **must click "Save Settings"** at the top of the page to ensure the changes are applied.

    2. Ask your users to register (either anonymously or with full information); if you want to collect behavioral data
       they need to confirm the collection of this data upon registration.
    3. For each document in the study, upload it to the server via the Documents view of the dashboard.
    4. Create a study for each of the documents (either via the Documents view or via the Study view of the dashboard).
    5. Send the respective participants the study invite links for the documents they should handle.
    6. Wait for the results. You can review the progress and output of participants from the Study view of the dashboard.
    7. Either download the annotations for all your documents in the Documents view or check each document and download
       them individually. This includes all annotations of all studies, which can be disentangled by considering the
       studyId associated with each inline commentary.

.. note::
    In the future an extensive in-tool tutorial will be provided to facilitate the usage of CARE for researchers.

CARE for NLP Model Integration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For testing NLP models and human-in-the-loop scenarios, CARE provides two main workflows:

1. **Real-time NLP during study**: Participants interact with documents that have live NLP annotations.
   See :doc:`modifying the frontend <../for_developers/frontend/frontend>` to add custom UI elements for NLP results.

2. **Asynchronous preprocessing of documents**: Apply NLP skills to submissions and documents in bulk before or after studies.
   See :doc:`nlp_skill_application` for detailed instructions on using the skill application interface.

The preprocesssing workflow is useful for:

- Pre-processing of NLP results before starting a study, to avoid latency during user interaction
- NLP requests: Asynchronous, sequential and runs in the background
- Running multiple files with the same NLP configuration

For managing and debugging connected NLP models, see the NLP Model Debugging section below.

User Consent
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you can collect any data with CARE, participants must give their consent.  
During registration, three separate checkboxes are shown:

1. **Terms of Service**: required to create an account.  
2. **Anonymous statistics**: allows collection of usage metrics (e.g. counts of actions).  
3. **Research data**: allows storage of annotations and behavioural logs for research.  

The first item is mandatory, the other two are optional.  
Users can update or withdraw their consent at any time in the profile menu under **Update Consent**.  

.. note::

   Without consent for research data, CARE will not log annotations or behavioural traces.  
   The backend enforces this, and admins can configure the default settings in :doc:`../for_developers/examples/settings`.
   
NLP Model Debugging
===================
As an administrator you can monitor the available NLP models from within the frontend under the "NLP Skills" component
of the dashboard. Here you can see a list of all connected skills and the status of the NLP broker.

To troubleshoot your model, first check that the broker is online and that the skill is listed as connected in the
components' table. If this is not the case, you should make sure that the broker is up and running and that you
connected your model to the right broker instance. You can check which broker instance is used under Settings >
Broker URL.

For each skill, you can open the details of their configuration (the gear symbol). You will see the input and ouput
examples and the whole configuration of the skill, as specified in its respective yaml. You can download or copy
this configuration if you want to use it for developing other skills.
Additionally, when you hit the arrow button at the top, a message interface towards the skill opens up. You can send
messages to the model and receive their responses here. Starting off with the example input you can modify the input
you send to the model. Below the message configuration you see the list of sent and received messages including the
passed objects. Check that the results match your expectation. By default, a response time of >5s is regarded as
timed out. If this is the case, your model might not run properly anymore.

.. note::
    An easy-to-use plugin feature for the frontend is currently under development to make modifying the frontend
    for integrating new UI elements for an NLP model as easy as writing a simply configuration file.
