docs/source/index.rst, before:

Welcome to CARE!
================================

Welcome to the CARE project -- contribute towards AI-assisted collaborative reading.

This documentation covers many examples to get you started really quick -- both as a
developer contributing to the extension of CARE or as a researcher using it for your research.

The project is developed at the `UKP Lab <https://www.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/ukp/ukp_home/index.en.jsp>`_ at the `TU Darmstadt <https://www.tu-darmstadt.de/index.en.jsp>`_ as part of the `Intertext Initiative <https://intertext.ukp-lab.de/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting Started

   getting_started/quickstart
   getting_started/installation

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: For Developers

   for_developers/before_you_start
   for_developers/basics/basics

   for_developers/frontend/frontend
   for_developers/backend/backend
   for_developers/examples/examples
   for_developers/debugging/index


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: For Researchers

   for_researchers/basics
   for_researchers/exporting
   for_researchers/study/study
   for_researchers/editor_usage
   
   for_researchers/moodle_usage



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

docs: add project information to the documentation

docs/source/index.rst, after:

Welcome to CARE!
================================

Welcome to the CARE project -- contribute towards AI-assisted collaborative reading.

This documentation covers many examples to get you started really quick -- both as a
developer contributing to the extension of CARE or as a researcher using it for your research.

The project is developed at the `UKP Lab <https://www.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/ukp/ukp_home/index.en.jsp>`_ at the `TU Darmstadt <https://www.tu-darmstadt.de/index.en.jsp>`_ as part of the `Intertext Initiative <https://intertext.ukp-lab.de/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting Started

   getting_started/quickstart
   getting_started/installation

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: For Developers

   for_developers/before_you_start
   for_developers/basics/basics

   for_developers/frontend/frontend
   for_developers/backend/backend
   for_developers/examples/examples
   for_developers/debugging/index


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: For Researchers

   for_researchers/basics
   for_researchers/exporting
   for_researchers/study/study
   for_researchers/editor_usage
   
   for_researchers/moodle_usage

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: History of the project

   project_info

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
