docs/source/for_developers/backend/rpcs/moodle.rst, before:

Working with the Moodle API
===========================

If you want to work with the Moodle API, please take a look at this document to get an overview of the API integration and how to use it.

General structure
-----------------

All Moodle API calls are made via an rpc call and therefore run on a dedicated docker container.
The main.py file in the moodleAPI folder `./utils/rpcs/moodleAPI` is responsible for the execution of the Moodle API commands.
The result is then returned to the socket and can be used in the backend.

.. note::

    Take a look at the `rpc.rst <docs/source/for_developers/backend/rpc.rst>`_ to get an overview on how the rpc calls work in general.

Usage
-----

The following functions can by called from the backend:

**getUsersFromCourse**: This method retrieves all users from a given course. It then creates an array of dictionaries, containing user information: ID, username, firstname, lastname, email, and their roles in the course (e.g. student/tutor).
parameters: {courseID: int, options{url: string, apiKey: string}}

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {courseID: 1, options: {...}}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].getUsersFromCourse(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**getUsersFromAssignment**: This method retrieves all users from a given assignment. It then creates an array of dictionaries, containing user information: ID, username, firstname, lastname, email, and their roles in the course (e.g. student/tutor).
parameters: {courseID: int, assignmentID: int, options{url: string, apiKey: string}}

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {courseID: 1, assignmentID: 1, options: {...}}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].getUsersFromAssignment(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**getSubmissionsInfosFromAssignment**: This method retrieves all submissions from a given assignment. It then returns a list of dictionaries containing the user IDs and their corresponding submission file names and urls. This method should be used in preperation for downloading the submissions.
parameters: {courseID: int, assignmentID: int, options{url: string, apiKey: string}}

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {courseID: 1, assignmentID: 1, options: {...}}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].getSubmissionsInfosFromAssignment(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**downloadSubmissionsFromUser**: This method downloads all submissions from the provided urls. It then returns a list of the files in binary format. The urls for the files can be obtained by calling the getSubmissionsInfosFromAssignment method.
parameters: submission_infos: list with urls: string

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {submission_infos: ["url1", "url2", ...]}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].downloadSubmissionsFromUser(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**uploadPasswordsToMoodle**: This method can be used to upload passwords as feedback in an assignment to Moodle.
parameters: {courseID: int, assignmentID: int, passwords: list: {id: int, password: string}, options{url: string, apiKey: string}}

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {courseID: 1, assignmentID: 1, passwords: [{id: 1, password: "password1"}, {id: 2, password: "password2"}], options: {...}}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].uploadPasswordsToMoodle(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

Configure Moodle
----------------

Administrator configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your Moodle Service is not yet configured to use the API, please follow the steps:

* The administrator of the Moodle service needs to enable access to the API (web services). Each user who wants to use the API needs to have a token.

  Instructions on how to do this can be found in the 
  `Moodle documentation: <https://docs.moodle.org/404/en/Using_web_services>`_

  \nKeep in mind that every api function needs to be activated separately. The function you need to enable in moodle are:

  1. **core_enrol_get_enrolled_users**
  2. **mod_assign_save_grade**
  3. **mod_assign_get_assignments**
  4. **mod_assign_get_user_mappings**
  5. **mod_assign_get_submissions**

* To use any functionality that includes downloading submissions files, the administrator needs to enable "Can Download File" in the Active External Web Service. This includes the following steps:

  1. **Navigate to Moodle Site Admin**

     Log in to your Moodle site as an administrator and go to the "Site Administration" page.

  2. **Search for External Services**
  
     On the "Site Administration" page, use the search bar to look for "External Services." Click on it to access the External Services section.

  3. **Edit Active External Services**
  
     In the External Services section, find the active external service used for syncing course images. Click the "Edit" button next to it.

  4. **Expand the Page**
  
     Once on the Active External Service page, expand the options by clicking the "Show more" button at the bottom of the page.

  5. **Enable "Can Download Files" Setting**
  
     Check the box next to "Can download files" to enable this setting.

  6. **Save Changes**
  
     After enabling the "Can download files" option, click on the "Save changes" button at the bottom of the page to apply your updates.

  The information was taken from this `website  <https://edwiser.helpscoutdocs.com/article/559-how-to-enable-can-download-file-in-the-active-external-web-service>`_. You can also find a visual guide there.

If you want to add new functionality to the Moodle API, these links might be helpful:

1. `Moodle API Documentation <https://docs.moodle.org/310/en/Web_services_API>`_: This site provides an overview of the Moodle API and its functions. If you are looking for a specific topic, e.g. 'submission', you can use this keyword to search for the specific function you need. However this site only contains the name of the functions and a short description. For more detailed information, you can use the following link.
2. `Moodle Github Repository <https://github.com/moodle/moodle>`_: This link leads you to the Moodle GitHub repository. Here you can find the source code of the Moodle API. If you are looking for a specific function, you can use the search bar to find the function you need. This is helpful if you want to know how the function works and what parameters it needs. Usually the relevant function is located in the 'exterballib.php' file of the module. Next to the function you can find another function with the same name but with the suffix 'parameters'. This function contains the parameters you need to call the function. To get an idea on how to pass the parameters in the correct format in pyton format, take a look at the existing functions.

.. note::

    You need an **API key** and the **API url** to access the Moodle API. The API key can be generated in the Moodle settings for a specific user.
    The API key is used to authenticate the user and to ensure that the user has the necessary permissions to access the API.
    The API url is usually the standard moodle url.


Assignment creation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Creating an assignment that is compatible with functionalities like downloading submissions or uploading login data as feedback, is really simple. Just follow these steps:

1. **Navigate to the right course in Moodle**

    Login to your Moodle account and click on 'My courses' in the upper left corner. Click on the course you want to create the assignment in. If you can't see the course, you can use the search bar at the top.

2. **Activate the edit mode**

    Now you should be on the homepage of the course. Make sure that you have the right to edit the course. To find out, look at the upper right corner and check if you see 'Edit mode' and a switch next to it. If you see it, click on the switch, so it shifts to the right. 
    Now you are in edit mode. If you can't see 'Edit mode', you need to ask the course administrator for the right to edit the course. If you are assigned multiple roles, make sure that you are in the right role. 
    You can change your role by clicking on your name in the upper right corner and then on 'Switch role to...'.

3. **Create an assignment**

    With 'edit mode' activated, navigate to the right section (e.g. 'General') where you want to create the assignment. Click on '+ Add an activity or resource'. A new window will open. Click on 'Assignment'. If you can't find it, you can use the search bar at the top. 

4. **Configure the assignment**

    Now you are in the assignment settings. Choose a name for the assignment and write a description if needed.
    You don't need to change any other settings in the assignment settings. The default settings are already compatible with the functionalities. 
    
    **Submissions allowed**
    If you want students to be able to make submission and download them afterwards, make sure that the 'Submission types' are set to 'File submissions' and the 'Feedback types' are set to 'Feedback comments'. If you want students to be able to submit multiple files, just increase 'Maximum number of uploaded files' under 'Submission types'. 
    If you download the submissions of a student, all files will be retrieved.

    **No submissions**
    If you don't want students to submit files, you need to deselect 'File submissions' under 'Submission types'. You can still upload feedback commentary and grades. This is useful if you want to use the functionality to upload login data as feedback.

    Other settings can be adjusted as needed.

5. **Test the assignment**

    To test if the configuration is correct, you can create a test submission. Just click on the assignment and then on 'Add submission'. Upload a file and click on 'Save changes'. Now you can use the functionalities to retrieve the submissions. Note that you may need to change your role to 'student' to be able to submit a file.

Findind the course and assignment IDs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For almost all functionalities, you need the course ID and the assignment ID. This is how you can find them:

**Course ID**
To get the course ID from a moodle course, just navigate to the homepage of the course and you will see 'id=xxxx' in the URL.
The number after the 'id=' is the course ID.

**Assignment ID**
To get the assignment ID from a moodle assignment,
just navigate to the assignment page and you will see 'id=xxxx' in the URL.
The number after the 'id=' is the assignment ID.

Implementing new functionality
------------------------------

Keep attention to the following steps to implement new functionality in the Moodle API:

Rebuild the docker container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the `main.py` file is modified, the docker container needs to be rebuilt.
This can be done by running the following command:

1. Delete the moodle container in docker

.. code-block:: bash

    docker compose -f docker-compose.yml build rpc_moodle
.. code-block:: bash

    docker compose -f docker-compose.yml run rpc_moodle
.. code-block:: bash

    make docker

After the 'make docker' command, you should see 'moodle...container recreated' in the console.

Commit message:

generalise password publishing on moodle to feedback publishing

docs/source/for_developers/backend/rpcs/moodle.rst, after:

Working with the Moodle API
===========================

If you want to work with the Moodle API, please take a look at this document to get an overview of the API integration and how to use it.

General structure
-----------------

All Moodle API calls are made via an rpc call and therefore run on a dedicated docker container.
The main.py file in the moodleAPI folder `./utils/rpcs/moodleAPI` is responsible for the execution of the Moodle API commands.
The result is then returned to the socket and can be used in the backend.

.. note::

    Take a look at the `rpc.rst <docs/source/for_developers/backend/rpc.rst>`_ to get an overview on how the rpc calls work in general.

Usage
-----

The following functions can by called from the backend:

**getUsersFromCourse**: This method retrieves all users from a given course. It then creates an array of dictionaries, containing user information: ID, username, firstname, lastname, email, and their roles in the course (e.g. student/tutor).
parameters: {courseID: int, options{url: string, apiKey: string}}

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {courseID: 1, options: {...}}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].getUsersFromCourse(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**getUsersFromAssignment**: This method retrieves all users from a given assignment. It then creates an array of dictionaries, containing user information: ID, username, firstname, lastname, email, and their roles in the course (e.g. student/tutor).
parameters: {courseID: int, assignmentID: int, options{url: string, apiKey: string}}

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {courseID: 1, assignmentID: 1, options: {...}}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].getUsersFromAssignment(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**getSubmissionsInfosFromAssignment**: This method retrieves all submissions from a given assignment. It then returns a list of dictionaries containing the user IDs and their corresponding submission file names and urls. This method should be used in preperation for downloading the submissions.
parameters: {courseID: int, assignmentID: int, options{url: string, apiKey: string}}

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {courseID: 1, assignmentID: 1, options: {...}}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].getSubmissionsInfosFromAssignment(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**downloadSubmissionsFromUser**: This method downloads all submissions from the provided urls. It then returns a list of the files in binary format. The urls for the files can be obtained by calling the getSubmissionsInfosFromAssignment method.
parameters: submission_infos: list with urls: string

.. code-block:: javascript

    try {
        data = {submission_infos: ["url1", "url2", ...]}
        const response = await this.server.rpcs["MoodleRPC"].downloadSubmissionsFromUser(data);
    } catch (error) {
        // handle error
    }

**publishAssignmentTextFeedback**: This functions publishes the feedback text to the assignment per user.
parameters: {, feedback_data: list: {extId: int, text: string}, options{apiKey: string, apiUrl: string, courseID: int, assignmentID: int}}

Configure Moodle
----------------

Administrator configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your Moodle Service is not yet configured to use the API, please follow the steps:

* The administrator of the Moodle service needs to enable access to the API (web services). Each user who wants to use the API needs to have a token.

  Instructions on how to do this can be found in the 
  `Moodle documentation: <https://docs.moodle.org/404/en/Using_web_services>`_

  \nKeep in mind that every api function needs to be activated separately. The function you need to enable in moodle are:

  1. **core_enrol_get_enrolled_users**
  2. **mod_assign_save_grade**
  3. **mod_assign_get_assignments**
  4. **mod_assign_get_user_mappings**
  5. **mod_assign_get_submissions**

* To use any functionality that includes downloading submissions files, the administrator needs to enable "Can Download File" in the Active External Web Service. This includes the following steps:

  1. **Navigate to Moodle Site Admin**

     Log in to your Moodle site as an administrator and go to the "Site Administration" page.

  2. **Search for External Services**
  
     On the "Site Administration" page, use the search bar to look for "External Services." Click on it to access the External Services section.

  3. **Edit Active External Services**
  
     In the External Services section, find the active external service used for syncing course images. Click the "Edit" button next to it.

  4. **Expand the Page**
  
     Once on the Active External Service page, expand the options by clicking the "Show more" button at the bottom of the page.

  5. **Enable "Can Download Files" Setting**
  
     Check the box next to "Can download files" to enable this setting.

  6. **Save Changes**
  
     After enabling the "Can download files" option, click on the "Save changes" button at the bottom of the page to apply your updates.

  The information was taken from this `website  <https://edwiser.helpscoutdocs.com/article/559-how-to-enable-can-download-file-in-the-active-external-web-service>`_. You can also find a visual guide there.

If you want to add new functionality to the Moodle API, these links might be helpful:

1. `Moodle API Documentation <https://docs.moodle.org/310/en/Web_services_API>`_: This site provides an overview of the Moodle API and its functions. If you are looking for a specific topic, e.g. 'submission', you can use this keyword to search for the specific function you need. However this site only contains the name of the functions and a short description. For more detailed information, you can use the following link.
2. `Moodle Github Repository <https://github.com/moodle/moodle>`_: This link leads you to the Moodle GitHub repository. Here you can find the source code of the Moodle API. If you are looking for a specific function, you can use the search bar to find the function you need. This is helpful if you want to know how the function works and what parameters it needs. Usually the relevant function is located in the 'exterballib.php' file of the module. Next to the function you can find another function with the same name but with the suffix 'parameters'. This function contains the parameters you need to call the function. To get an idea on how to pass the parameters in the correct format in pyton format, take a look at the existing functions.

.. note::

    You need an **API key** and the **API url** to access the Moodle API. The API key can be generated in the Moodle settings for a specific user.
    The API key is used to authenticate the user and to ensure that the user has the necessary permissions to access the API.
    The API url is usually the standard moodle url.


Assignment creation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Creating an assignment that is compatible with functionalities like downloading submissions or uploading login data as feedback, is really simple. Just follow these steps:

1. **Navigate to the right course in Moodle**

    Login to your Moodle account and click on 'My courses'.
    Click on the course you want to create the assignment in.
    If you can't see the course, you can use the search bar at the top.

2. **Activate the edit mode**

    Now you should be on the homepage of the course.
    Make sure that you have the right to edit the course.
    To find out, look at the upper right corner and check if you see 'Edit mode' and a switch next to it.

3. **Create an assignment**

    With 'edit mode' activated, navigate to the right section (e.g. 'General') where you want to create the assignment.
    Click on '+ Add an activity or resource' and add an 'Assignment' or 'Aufgabe' (if you are using the German version).

4. **Configure the assignment**

    Recommended settings for the feedback assignment are:

    - Name: Choose a name for the assignment.
    - Description: Write a description if needed.
    - Availability: Deactivate all options.
    - Submission types: Deactivate all options.
    - Feedback types: Activate 'Feedback comments' and set 'Inline comments' to 'Yes'.

    **Submissions allowed**
    If you want students to be able to make submission and download them afterwards, make sure that the 'Submission types' are set to 'File submissions' and the 'Feedback types' are set to 'Feedback comments'. If you want students to be able to submit multiple files, just increase 'Maximum number of uploaded files' under 'Submission types'. 
    If you download the submissions of a student, all files will be retrieved.

    Other settings can be adjusted as needed.

.. tip::

    You can change your role by clicking on your name in the upper right corner and then on 'Switch role to...'.


Findind the course and assignment IDs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For almost all functionalities, you need the course ID and the assignment ID. This is how you can find them:

**Course ID**
To get the course ID from a moodle course, just navigate to the homepage of the course and you will see 'id=xxxx' in the URL.
The number after the 'id=' is the course ID.

**Assignment ID**
To get the assignment ID from a moodle assignment,
just navigate to the assignment page and you will see 'id=xxxx' in the URL.
The number after the 'id=' is the assignment ID.

Implementing new functionality
------------------------------

Keep attention to the following steps to implement new functionality in the Moodle API:

Rebuild the docker container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the `main.py` file is modified, the docker container needs to be rebuilt.
This can be done by running the following command:

1. Delete the moodle container in docker

.. code-block:: bash

    docker compose -f docker-compose.yml build rpc_moodle
.. code-block:: bash

    docker compose -f docker-compose.yml run rpc_moodle
.. code-block:: bash

    make docker

After the 'make docker' command, you should see 'moodle...container recreated' in the console.
